Debian
======

Popular operating systems include :xref-os-windows:`Microsoft Windows<>`,
:xref-os-macos:`Apple MacOS<>`, :xref-os-linux:`Linux<>` and
:xref-os-freebsd:`FreeBSD<>`.

Here we use Linux, specifically the :xref-os-debian:`Debian<>` Linux
distribution which is a free, open source and community managed Linux
distribution with a stable software collection. It has excellent hardware
support even for non-free drivers such as the GPU drivers from NVIDIA and
network-device firmware from Intel and
Broadcom.

Also, the knowledge you gain when using Debian on your workstation will come in
handy when when using the SoCs such as the Raspberry Pi as the
:xref-os-rpios:`Raspberry Pi OS<>` is a Debian derivative and when using more
open/free SoC-platforms then :xref-os-armbian:`armbian<>` is another excellent
Debian derivative.

On the non-free software side, then ``.deb`` and ``.rpm`` packages are commonly
available. The ``.deb`` are as the extension suggest, for
:xref-os-debian:`Debian<>` and Debian-derived Linux distributions. Thus you
will easily get proprietary software such as :xref-app-spotify:`Spotify<>`,
:xref-app-sublimetext:`Sublime Text<>`, :xref-app-discord:`Discord<>`,
:xref-app-slack:`Slack<>`, :xref-app-teams:`Microsoft Teams<>` and
:xref-app-zoom:`Zoom<>` installed on Debian.

There are also the option of running proprietary applications via overlays such
as :xref-flatpak:`Flatpak<>`, :xref-snapcraft:`SnapCraft<>` and
:xref-appimage:`AppImage<>`. Or simply using the web-version of those services
/ applications.

.. toctree::
   :glob:

   *
